Remember,
please hit like and subscribe for me.
Thank you so much. Okay, let's go. Hi
everyone. Today is Thursday, January the
15th, and this is the Moneyball Morning
Report for the Benzinga Pro platform.
Taking a look at a wide angle picture.
Want to make sure that we get our ducks
in a row mentally about what's going on
here. And we can see that we are still
in a buy the dip zone. Now, here's the
thing. Sometimes we look at the stuff
and we go, "Holy cow, how can I see that
dip down to 6911 and think, hey, they're
going to buy it?" And this is the story
board. Zoom out. Take a look at your
formations and say, "Am I making higher
lows?"
What price action has to do on a daily
formation is come back in and hold the
floor. And so, what might the traders
have been looking at to position
themselves to see whether this was going
to be a buying event or not? So, first
things first, on the daily, we could see
the VWAP and the point of control very
close to each other. those numbers 6923
to 6950. You and I have been watching
6950 a lot. That actually is where the
zero DTE put wall is today. So they're
still holding that steady. The call wall
still up at 7,50. As we take a look at
the E- Mini S&P here, there's a big
gamma line sitting at 70,15.
Now, so that's the big thing. What we
want to think about is how big money
takes a look at the market and says,
"Okay, we should hold X or we should
hold Y." And the reasons that they do
that are, of course, to figure out where
they're going to buy. And so, we always
have to look at those zones of inventory
accumulation. And how do we know what
inventory accumulation looks like? It's
support and resistance that continually
get retested over and over again and
hold. And so you can see that big money
is looking for price action to come into
that 6930 at this juncture and hold. And
we certainly did that. So the upside
pressure event puts us back to the top
of that trading range 7,025.
Are we lifting this morning? Absolutely.
So, let's dig in. Take a look at the
price action. We can see that inventory
in the overnight is long. The first 30
minute formation. Let's look at the
highs and lows there. You can see that
that first 30 minute high, we broke
above it and then retested. Notice how
this happens. Watch. Overall,
overall, we've got a downward trend on
the 30-inut chart. We have this top and
then for the whole day we sold off. We
got into the overnight
bounced actually into that trend line
space which really works out to be where
this wick is. So again, it's always a
horizontal line of some kind. And so
getting up above that 63 zone pretty
important. So we're going to leave 6350
there. uh 6963.50
as a region of an old floor and a break
to the north. Notice buyers
towing the line. So we have overnight
inventory. There's a supply zone here.
Demand zones all the way down here.
Supply zone up here into old support,
new resistance from the initial
breakdown. What are we going to look at?
We're going to look at that 30 minute
opening formation. That's going to be
the line in the sand to me. Above that
zone 69 9675,
buyers are going to have way more
confidence getting into the frey. My
suspicion is we come down, we test 6963,
it holds, becomes the buy zone, and
traders continue up to the top. Now,
what if this is wrong? First things
first, if we get to 69.96
and we cannot get up over the supply
zone at 7,04,
price action will fall back into the
space and this area at 6980
to 6960
become the battleground. Ideally, in my
mind, I took a long yesterday
covered it at 69.50, but it did rise
into the last hour of the day. I don't
like trading that last hour, mostly
because sometimes it really reverses
dramatically, but it did. They bought
the dip. And so, this dip event is the
thing that traders are going to have to
defend over the long edge. any pullbacks
into 6950 6960 that hold will give us
more buying pressure. Okay, so they are
still buying the dip uh demand zone,
excuse me, supply area up here into
7,04.
We breach that. We're back up to 7,025.
Okay, let's take a look at the NQ.
Let's go to the daily. Let's delete all
these annotations.
Start fresh. Here's the daily chart.
What are we looking at? Dip buyers,
right?
Dip buyers for sure. What's happening up
here? A lot of supply. A lot of supply,
but they're still buying the dip. And if
they keep buying the dip with force, we
want to see continued flow on volume as
it pushes up there. They're going to
break through 26,000 and head to the
north. Call 26,500.
Put wall 24,500.
That's still very far away. The zerod
put wall 25,300.
So that's the zone that we are staring
down, right? Lines in the sand, you
know, we want to we want to see if it
can get up over 26,100.
Let's jump right into the 30 minute. See
what happened. Overnight inventory long.
Same sort of structure. Watch. And you
can do this with any chart, your RTY,
your YM, whatever you want, right?
Negative trend
from there, positive trend from
underneath.
And so the thought is, okay, what am I
going to do here? Is it going to reject
the flow or
hold the support and move to the north?
So if you're staring it down and you go,
hey, I want to take short at the value
area low, your thought should be, okay,
old support, new resistance. Nothing
wrong with that. How do you know if
you're staying on the right side of the
trade? Price action does what you expect
it to which is continually fail and
continue in the trend line. What did it
do? It held the floor. So the floor of
the formation a watch today 25,530.
That's very important. Pullbacks into
that area. Easily a buy zone. Right.
We've got that. Where are they headed
to? Gamma wall above supply zone above
the key area for buyers to get through
today for more buying pressure is above
25,920.
Right? If it gets above there, it's
moving to the next supply zone which is
26,000 and change. All right. So, we're
going to look for that as our upside
pressure.
What's the ideal buying space? you know,
the old selling zone 25,630.
If it comes in there, it's going to be
great. Now, the VWAP is protecting price
at this juncture. So, you could say
maybe I just use that as my support zone
and I get involved at the VWAP. That's
always your choice. The goal is, can I
get into a trade and manage the risk?
And here's the thing. If you get into
the trade down here at 25,630,
remember it's an if and then. So if it
comes into this area and it gives us
another higher low relative to the
breakout zone and then it recovers it,
we've got ourselves upside pressure. If
not, no cigar, right? We could even
remove this one. Let's let's remove this
one.
>> Pardon me.
If we went to this edge and drew this
trend line, it's even more apparent how
important this number is. Traders are
making higher lows and higher highs.
Depends on what kind of flow we've got
going. This is going to be a very tricky
day, I think. But all the days have been
tricky. The key thing to note is there
was a failed breakdown here. Price
action broke through the value area low
and recaptured it right into the end of
the day in the overnight here. To me,
the line in the sand is this 25,632
for the buyers.
If they come down, lose it, and
recapture it, still buying pressure. If
they come down, lose it, and they can't
recapture it, we could easily go into
the zero DTE put wall, which is 25,300.
Excuse me. Let's take a look at Micro
Bitcoin
like a 70-year-old man with all these
noises that I'm making. Sorry. And for
those of you who might be 70, no harm.
Don't worry about it. I'm right there
behind you. Let's take a look at the
daily chart here. this one. Wow. Right.
Again, let's take a look at what's going
on. Value area low, big range, big
motion. It breaks the value area low and
is trying to recapture it over the last
two days. So, this morning, first area
of the breakout, that is the number up
at let's remove all these annotations.
That is the number up at $95,000
and some change. Right. So now we're
about $2,000 above that zone. It's a
pretty important ledge. Okay. 95,000.
Pretty important ledge. Now that this
has been a failed breakdown,
the question is it looked like a failed
breakdown here, broke down again. Here's
the difference. Made a higher low. So
we've got all these higher lows. Could
we be building another formation like
this that breaks above our 95,000 and
then starts moving into these big areas
like 100,000
106,000?
Hard to say. Not really sure what's
going on with the the Bitcoin bros, but
here's what I'm seeing. Failed breakdown
value area low. So, they've recovered
it. Line in the sand. My thought is as
long
as they can hold
uh this 91,000.
They're in good shape. So, let's
collapse and see what's going on.
All right.
Trying to build volume. Uh you know,
inventory is a little bit messy here,
right? It's it's a little bit messy.
What we can see is they are buying the
dip. we are moving forward in this sort
of rounded bottoming space and it's
gotten steeper, right? So, how do we
know it's gotten steeper? Because this
trend line is not touching these right
here. So, there's actually Let's clone
this so we can have some parallel
motion.
Right? So what we can see is that these
two lines are keeping us really in the
fray. So what's the trade? Breakout
above 98 probably headed to 100 because
it's got all of this area that it's held
from value area low in the big picture.
All right. So, what we want to do is put
an alert here for the break above
98,000.
That's going to send us into 100 slash
101 102. If perh happen stance we break
back below value area high, we've still
got buyers. But my suspicion is that the
loss of 96 will send us back down to 95
and then potentially the VWAP, this
rounded bottom. You know, these traders
like to look for these cup and handle
style formations. I don't do that sort
of thing. Um just just not my
wheelhouse. Uh, but
this area here at the VWAP looks like a
pretty good number to watch. See if it
recovers 95 and then Bob's your uncle,
right? So, pull back to 95 gives you
some pressure. If it loses 95, folks,
the stairst step down is
pretty likely. So, you want to be very
careful hanging on, right? The call wall
is sitting at 95.
The put wall still down there at 80. So,
they're holding some protection here.
All right, let's get to silver. Um,
yeah. No, let let's do oil first.
Okay, so oil had this massive move. It's
just all of our triggers went off. So,
first thing we're removing everything
here. It had, let's take a look. Daily
formations
failed breakdown potentially here right
below value area low on the daily chart.
So this number at
that's sort of our line in the sand.
We'll firm it up when we get to the 30
minute. Huge supply zone up here.
uh fairly solid supply zone that it hit
right on the money yesterday,
super close to the VWAP. Okay, so that
is still $62 breakout formation. All
right, we'll put that alert in on the
tighter time frame. So, what are they
doing? Is this a failed breakdown? Well,
if it comes back and holds 57, the
answer is yes. Remember, the
administration does not want these
numbers higher. However,
if we want to continue to be
oil independent, energy independent,
these numbers have to rise because we
are capitalist society and we're not
going to throw good money after bad.
Okay, so trend line event pretty
important failure here. Here's that
failed breakdown. The look below and
fail. That means it doesn't head lower.
it holds. And so now we're looking for
the retest of that zone to be a buying
area. My thought maybe the zero DTE port
wall which is at 58.
Let's zoom in and see what's going on.
All right, on the tight time frame over
just a few days, we are below value area
low. Inventory is very short in the
overnight. We're coming into the
anchored VWAP and the low of the prior
day. So this is going to be the first
zone that we see the traders try to buy
and they are entirely trying to do it.
So what do we want to do? We want this
trigger
if it loses that zone. You could easily
chase it down into the next area's
relative support. So you know could that
be 48? Yes, it could be. Right. Old
resistance, new support.
uh 50 5850 and then there's the put wall
but the anchor looks
a little bit higher, excuse me, a little
bit lower. So that anchor event where
the put wall could come in and then uh
bounce is this 5780.
So we're going to be watching that zone
too. Pulling back into this area gives
us a really nice buying pressure event.
If we were to do something like measure
the Fibonacci from a from the high to
the low in this structure,
we would see our 50% line right where
they're battling right now. So, this
becomes a bit of a do or die. Let's
watch this area to hold. If we look
below,
bounce, and then collapse below again,
we know we've got continuation, right?
If you're saying to yourself, hey, well,
I don't want to go through all of that
looking, and I just want to say I'm
going to go long or short. If you go
long,
don't break 58.85.
That'll be messy. If you go short,
it's a little bit more risk. Um,
we don't need to get up above the value
area low. And that's 5970, right? So
30 points of risk to the downside, 40
points of risk, excuse me, 30 points of
risk to uh downside pressure, 15 points,
30 20 points of risk to upside pressure.
That's up to you, right? But seems
likely to me that if we hold 5913,
getting back to 60, not going to be a
problem because that's the middle of the
trading zone and that's where everybody
has accumulated inventory. So midline of
that seems quite reasonable. It looks
pretty good to me. All right, silver.
I don't even know what's going on with
my throat this morning.
Okay, silver. Um, still rocking. Let's
get all of these annotations out. Let's
go to the daily.
Very big motion.
This is parabolic. I can't even I can't
even draw a line, right? I mean, I
could,
but it's moved far away from the edges,
right? So, when it starts moving like
that, that's exponential motion. Um
and so uh
that's why we would call it parabolic.
Um
who remembers f ofx= x squared?
Sorry.
So what are we looking at? This is very
interesting to me. It appears
that we had a pretty significant
inventory accumulation event between
and
83.
And so in this inventory event, they're
distributing now, right? We're looking
at this and they're in distribution. So
if I clone it and I say all right where
might we hit at the top it's at the one
day max for mentor Q and that puts us at
95 and some change right so apparently
spot prices are well below what's
happening in the futures I have no idea
how that works way above my pay grade
but it seems to me that
for things to stable spot prices should
still be somewhat higher,
but I don't know for sure. Let's jump
into the tighter time frames. We can
only see these formations. Excuse me. We
can only see these calculations here on
the the daily chart. Let's go into the
30 minute. See what's happening. All
right, we touch the put wall,
the zerodt put wall in the overnight
here. That's interesting.
Inventory is short.
Surprisingly,
we have a trend line that is not very
strong. We have a break, right? Let's
see if we can find a better trend line.
I don't know. I think that trend line is
pretty good.
We just had all of these wiggles and
this is something that we definitely see
in the trading space of the futures. It
is
very volatile, very very volatile. Does
not really pay attention to things like
relative support and resistance and all
of that fantastic stuff we like to look
at. It does have a tendency to break
through those edges. So let's
suppose from this old resistance to
being new support that this was the
inventory event that they worked through
yesterday. Let's see if that in
actuality gives us the measured motion.
Right. So we're looking let's see if it
gives us another halfway or
Yeah, that's a little bit over halfway.
Let's Let's see if a Fibonacci does a
better job here.
Fibonacci does the same thing.
Um,
yeah, I don't like this one. I don't
like this fib.
So, let's try the next fib. We'll try
this high to this low. 50% range gives
us what is that? $89.
Yeah, $89.90.
That gives us a support structure, but
I would prefer to look at the bottom of
the structure than the top, which is
8870. That's going to be the alert.
Pullbacks into that zone. The that's the
do or die zone today in my mind. If it
loses 88, we've got ourselves a trip
down memory lane to 86.
If it holds
88,
we're walking to the top of the box and
you know we all these up here. A lot of
people thinking we're going to 100 and
listen, we could. It is still a deep by
the dip formation. Look at what's going
on with the option traders though. The
call wall way down here 85
put wall
84.
So these walls
uh they're way out of whack. So we
should see them shift. Uh one day max
from EnthQ is $956.
Dipser buys last significant
accumulation.
We're trying to see where did they start
building new inventory events. Seems
like it's right here,
right? And they broke out
up above
$89.70.
So, you know what? Pulling back into
that line also not a disagreeable event.
Me, what do I like to do? I want to wait
and see how it develops. If we move all
the way back up into the supply zone and
we reverse, we start reversing. I'm
going to take a short there. If we pull
back, so that number is going to be
value area high.
Um, let's do an alert right there.
That's 9250. I want to see if it fails.
If it fails 9250, short action event. If
it pulls back into 8870,
initial long action event. If it breaks
either of those, I'm getting out and
turning in the opposite direction,
right? Because that's going to be
breakaway action. I don't want to be
long and short in breakaway action. Or
breakaway action to the south, $88.77.
I don't want to be long into that
breakdown action. Okay, so zero DT put
wall 67 uh excuse me, $87 and some
change. A lot of buying pressure here at
the 86 zone. Dips are still buys, folks.
But the structural formation, take a
look at this
overnight inventory long day before
that. Overnight inventory long.
Night before last. Overnight inventory
long.
Last night overnight inventory short.
That's different. That's different. So,
we've got to pay attention to one of
these things
is not like the other. Which one is
different? Can you tell? Right. So, let
let's watch this uh 92 area and see what
goes on. Okay. gold.
Alrighty,
let's see what's going on with gold.
That looks nothing like silver, right?
Nothing like silver. Let's look at the
daily.
Daily action dip by I read a cryptic uh
post from Albert Marco and he said gold
bugs
are right for all the wrong reasons.
I don't have any idea what that meant
but
spot gold is also trading at a discount
to the actual price. Where is the call
wall? 4,800.
Where is the put wall for gold? 4,000.
So there's an $800 spread here in this
formation. Look at what they've done.
Value area high.
Broke out, came back, held the breakout
in the overnight. Brand new group of
buyers
moving up. So what do we want to look
at? Can we hold this value area event
where they come back and they test 4420?
If that happens
and they hold it, we've got ourselves
buying action. Now, here's the thing. If
it comes in here, it's likely to come in
and test below and then break out again.
So, wait for it to recover back over the
edge unless you're scalping
and then you can try it. But
notice there's a line of inventory
accumulation
at this 4368.
This is clear inventory accumulation to
me,
right? This box on the base of that
accumulation is 43. So we got to be a
little bit careful there, right? We
definitely want to be careful there.
All right, let's go to the 30inut chart.
What is this, dear friends and
neighbors?
Do I hear inventory accumulation?
Yes.
Popcorn and cookies to those in the
back. So, this is what we're staring
down, right? A breakout
holding a base. That's 4593.
4594.
Probably could come back and and do that
and then break above uh 4600 again.
Let's Let's see. I'm going to leave the
edge wide, right? I'm going leave the
edge wide. So, if it comes in a little
higher, like 4600 or drops a little
lower and then recovers, we're looking
at great shape. So, what are we staring
down? They bounce out of value area high
and collapse.
they bounce down out of value area low
and collapse and reverse. So, do we look
at wash, rinse, repeat potentially. So,
how do we do that? Um,
let's put an alert close to the top of
the box. Lot of supply sitting up here,
4650.
If we test that zone,
there's going to be a decision made. My
suspicion is that it's a short, but look
at the stretches above.
So, you've got to wait for that
breakdown that collapses on easily.
Let's see what time frame they collapse
on. 15minute is good enough, right?
15-minute collapse is good enough. If it
collapses after 15 minute time frame,
short action, same here on the bottom
for the long action. If it breaks away,
we've got ourselves a rally right up
into
what is this number?
Uh, gamma level three, which is 47.
Let's put that alert back on there. Um,
4720.
That's what that looks like. Okay. So,
we got that flow up there to that
target. The measured move to the
downside, ladies and gentlemen,
puts us round about I think they break
this low. If it comes in here, it comes
into the zod put wall, which is 4510.
That's probably going to be a magnet
if it fails. And so we'll create a a
line around 4500. Let's make it a little
wider. Okay, we'll make a a wide line
here. So we do that. All right, let's
go. Let's take a look at spy.
Now remember folks, the reason that I go
through this every single morning all
the time is not
so that you can just go, okay, here's
the level. What I want you to be able to
do is replicate it. So, if I drifted off
into the ether, not only could you know
what to do, but you could show somebody
else what to do, right? Just, you know,
sharing is scary. There you go. So, that
is an important thing for me to
accomplish with you. So, pay attention
to the h I wonder why that's happening
kind of thing and see what gives.
Okay. So, we've got ourselves a pretty
messy patch here.
Um, let's see if this holds. Nope.
It's very tight. It's very, very tight.
Try to incline still clearly by the dip.
It is absolutely by the dip. Here is the
interesting thing. The point of control
where all this price action is sitting
is sitting very close to the put wall.
The put wall is 680. What did they do?
Bounced into the put wall and in the
overnight they have run up the rails,
right? Very nice bounce zone. That is
the line in the sand. As long as we're
above this 680, it's going to be buying
pressure. Now, the question is the
following. Do you want Oh, that's a
daily one. Cancel. I'll do it on the day
on the 30 minute. Do you do you want to
go long at 692 when you know the floor
is 680? Not really, you know. Not not
not really. But what we do know is we
are making higher lows and higher highs
and the NQ does not look like this,
right? SPY looks like this. NQ does not.
And you know, if we are looking at the
IWM, which everybody's gone crazy
talking about the uh uh RTY,
you know, it's great until it isn't. And
it's sitting right at the top of the
call wall. For those of us that uh are
understanding what's going on here,
watch for this.
It's,
you know, it I don't think it's going to
break. This is going to be a look above
and fail. But if it fails and holds
a brand new area of support, $250, we
got upside pressure on the horizon. IW
IWM looking okay, but there's some
decisions to make on $265 is pretty
important for that chart. Okay, here we
are with SPY. You know, we got all kinds
of news coming across the wires today.
And let's take a peek at that. I don't
even know what day of the week it is.
Okay, Thursday. Jobless claims, retail
sales, PhillyFed, Empire,
um, PhillyFed Manufacturing Index, New
York, Empire State Manufacturing Index,
import export, business inventories, EIA
report,
bills,
Fed chairs,
Fed balance sheet, and I don't know what
they're doing kicking the can down the
street over this tariff situation.
Whatever it is, that's that is going to
jolt the market. I don't know which way.
Could send it all the way to the top.
Could send it crashing to the floor. I
don't know. Here's what I do know. We're
caught between the call wall in SPY up
at 700 and the put wall, which is 680.
Yesterday,
we collapsed into ding ding ding value
area low and immediately began to
recover.
So, what do we not want to do today?
Lose value area low. We don't want to
lose that. If we lose it,
we're back down and the next demand zone
is sitting here near 682 to 684. It's a
pretty wide swath, right? We've got a
gap up,
pretty big gap up here. And so the goal
is to fill the gap and then move to the
upside.
Yesterday we gapped down and then
recovered. Here we're gapping up. We
should probably fade on the back end of
that. I I don't know. I'm I'm supposing
that if I get to value area high, I'm
going to look for it to break down and
I'm going to test um
I'm going to test this number at 596 for
a reversal event. Great. Let's make that
a little bit wider so in case that it
goes off, we'll be able to get ourselves
uh a nice short trade. But clearly a lot
of inventory holding in this place. So,
watch these value area lows. In my
studies, obviously, I don't normally
talk about them that much, but they were
very apparent as I was studying the
charts. And so, keep an eye open for
everything. And, uh, good luck trading
today. It's it's going to be sticky.
Take care.